2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein -
2.1 this Guarantee does not constitute a suretyship but constitutes a primary undertaking giving rise to a principal, independent and continuing obligation by the Guarantors in favour of the Seller;
2.2 each Guarantor agrees as a separate, additional, primary and continuing obligation to indemnify the Seller, from time to time on first demand, from and against all loss and damage (excluding any consequential damages) incurred by the Seller as
a result of and/or pursuant to any of the Obligations being or becoming void, voidable, unenforceable or ineffective for any reason, whether or not known to the Seller, the amount of such loss being the amount which the Seller would otherwise have
been entitled to recover from the Purchaser pursuant to the Credit Application and/or otherwise;
2.3 each Guarantor agrees that the amount of each Guarantor's indebtedness under this Guarantee is equal to the full amount payable by the Purchaser pursuant to the Credit Application and/or otherwise and that each Guarantor's indebtedness
under this Guarantee shall not be reduced if the amount payable by the Purchaser pursuant the Credit Application and/or otherwise is not payable in full for any reason, including (i) the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Credit Application,
(ii) the Purchaser raising a defence under Section 133 of the Companies Act 71 of 2008, as amended from time to time (“the Act”); or (iii) the discharge of any amount owed by the Purchaser under clause 152, clause 154 or any other provision in
Chapter 6 of the Act; and 14
2.4 each Guarantor acknowledges having received a copy of the Credit Application and confirms that he/she/it is aware of the terms of the Credit Application.
3. As part of the Guarantors' liability in terms hereof, the Guarantors undertake to pay the amount of all costs, charges and expenses of whatever nature including, but without derogating from the generality of the aforegoing, legal costs and collection
commission as between attorney and own client incurred by the Seller in securing or endeavouring to secure payment of the Obligations and/or in securing or endeavouring to secure fulfilment of the Guarantors' obligations.
4. The Guarantors agree to pay the Seller any amount claimed by it as being due by the Purchaser forthwith against receipt by the Guarantors of a written demand from the Seller therefor stating that such amount is due and payable by the
Purchaser to the Seller, notwithstanding that the Guarantors and/or the Purchaser may dispute the amount claimed and/or the Purchaser's liability to make such payment. All payments made by the Guarantors in terms hereof shall be made, without
set off or deduction of any nature whatever, into the bank account stipulated by the Seller in writing for this purpose.
5. Demands for payment by the Seller under this Guarantee may be made from time to time, and the Guarantors' liability and obligations under this Guarantee may be enforced, irrespective of whether any demands, steps and/or proceedings are
being or have been made or taken against the Purchaser and/or any other third party.
6. The rights of the Seller under this Guarantee shall in no way be affected or diminished if the Seller at any time obtains additional guarantees, suretyships, securities or indemnities in connection with the obligations of the Purchaser.
7. The Guarantors undertake to the Seller that, from the date of signature of this Guarantee and until all the Obligations have been unconditionally and irrevocably discharged, the Guarantors shall not, without first obtaining the Seller's prior written
consent, claim, prove or accept any payment in any composition by, or any winding-up or liquidation of the Purchaser.
8. The Guarantors' payment obligations under this Guarantee are absolute and unconditional and accordingly, but without limitation, the Guarantors shall have no right to defer, withhold or adjust any payment which is due and payable to the Seller
arising out of this Guarantee, nor to obtain the deferment of any judgment for any such payment or part thereof nor to obtain deferment of execution of any judgment.
9. Should the Guarantors fail to pay any amount for which the Guarantors are liable to the Seller in terms of this Guarantee after demand made therefor by the Seller, the Seller shall be entitled to levy interest on the outstanding amount from the due
date for payment thereof until the date of actual payment in full, at the prime rate plus 2% (two per cent), which interest shall be calculated daily and compounded monthly in arrear. Any such interest shall be paid by the Guarantors to the Seller in
full, free of any deductions of whatsoever nature, on demand. For the purpose of this clause 9 the term “prime rate” shall mean the rate publicly quoted by The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited, from time to time, as being its prime rate
(expressed as a nominal annual compounded monthly in arrear rate), calculated on a 365 day a year factor, irrespective as to whether or not the year is a leap year and prima facie proven, in the event of there being a dispute in relation thereto, by
certificate by any manager of the aforesaid bank (whose appointment, qualification or authority need not be proven).
10. The Seller shall be entitled at any time and without the consent of the Guarantors to cede all or any of its rights and delegate all or any of its obligations in terms of this Guarantee to any person or entity. The Guarantors hereby unconditionally
and irrevocably consent to the splitting of any claims against the Guarantors which may result arising from or pursuant to or in consequence of the cession and/or delegation by the Seller in terms of this Guarantee.
11. The Guarantors hereby agrees that the Guarantors shall not be entitled to cede any of their rights or delegate any of their obligations in terms of this Guarantee to any person whomsoever.
12. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding -
12.1 any fluctuation in or temporary extinction for any period whatever of the Obligations; or 15
12.2 the death of any of the Guarantors or the sequestration of any of the Guarantors or any of the Guarantors suffering legal disability, until such time as the Obligations have been discharged in full and the Seller has agreed in writing to release the
Guarantors from the provisions of this Guarantee on the basis that the Seller shall not withhold such release where all the Obligations have been discharged in full.
13. No alteration or variation of any present or future agreement between the Purchaser and the Seller shall in any way release the Guarantors from their liability hereunder.
14. The Seller shall be entitled, whether before or after the due dates for payment of the Obligations, without reference or notification to the Guarantors and without affecting its rights hereunder, to -
14.1 release any other guarantors, sureties and securities;
14.2 grant the Purchaser extensions of time for payment;
14.3 compound or to make any other arrangements with the Purchaser for the discharge of its indebtedness.
15. The Guarantors agree that the rights of the Seller under this Guarantee and the obligation to pay the Seller on demand as set out herein, shall in no way be affected or diminished should the Purchaser undergo business rescue proceedings as
contemplated in Chapter 6 of the Act. As such should the due date for payment of any amount owing by the Purchaser to the Seller be suspended by virtue of any business rescue proceedings referred to aforesaid, the obligation of the Guarantors to
pay the Seller such amount shall not be suspended and the Guarantors shall be liable to pay the Seller such amount upon demand made therefor by the Seller. Notwithstanding the aforegoing should the Purchaser undergo business rescue
proceedings as contemplated in Chapter 6 of the Act, then the Guarantors agree to forthwith pay the Seller such amount/s as may be necessary to extinguish the Purchaser's total indebtedness to the Seller notwithstanding that such indebtedness
may or may not be due for payment as at such date.
16. The Guarantors hereby irrevocably renounce all legal exceptions (including, without limitation, excussion and division, non numeratae pecuniae, revision of accounts and errore calculi), benefits or rights which might otherwise serve (or, but for
the provisions of this clause 16, have served) to limit, reduce, abate or otherwise restrict the liability of the Guarantors in terms of this Guarantee and the Guarantors declare themselves to be fully acquainted with the meaning thereof.
17. The Guarantors hereby agree that the Seller shall, at its option, be entitled to institute any legal proceedings which may arise out of or in connection with this Guarantee at the election of the Seller, in -
17.1 any magistrate's court having jurisdiction, notwithstanding the fact that the claim or value of the matter in dispute might exceed the jurisdiction of such magistrate's court; or
17.2 the South Gauteng High Court of South Africa, Johannesburg, to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of which the Guarantors hereby consent.
18. The Guarantors hereby choose domicilium citandi et executandi at the address set out in clause 1, at which address all notices and communications may be addressed to the Guarantors and all notices addressed to the Guarantors at the said
address and -
18.1 despatched by prepaid registered post shall be deemed to have reached the Guarantors seven days after the date of posting (unless the contrary is proved);
18.2 delivered by hand shall be deemed to have been received on the day of delivery.
19. A certificate under the hand of any chartered accountant nominated by the Seller as to the existence and amount of the indebtedness of the Purchaser and/or of the Guarantors to the Seller at any time, as to the fact that such amount is due and
payable, the amount of interest accrued due thereon and the rate of interest applicable thereto and as to any other fact, matter or thing relating to the indebtedness of the Purchaser and of the Guarantors to the Seller shall be prima facie proof of the
contents and correctness thereof and the amount of the indebtedness of the Guarantors hereunder for the purpose of provisional sentence or summary judgment or any other proceedings against the Guarantors in any competent court, 16 and shall
be valid as a liquid document for those purposes. It shall not be necessary to prove the appointment of the person signing any such certificate.
20. Each provision in this guarantee is severable the one from the other and if any provision is found by any competent court to be defective or unenforceable for any reason whatever, the remaining provisions shall be of full force and effect and
continue to be of full force and effect.
21. In this guarantee, unless the context clearly indicates a contrary intention, an expression which denotes the singular includes the plural and vice versa and an expression which denotes a natural person shall include an artificial person and vice
versa.
22. Each Guarantor consents to the Seller and/or its agents requesting any information available from any credit bureau regarding that Guarantor. 23. The Guarantors hereby acknowledge that the Guarantors were free to secure independent legal
and/or other advice as to the nature and effect of all of the provisions of this Guarantee and that the Guarantors have either taken such advice or dispensed with the necessity of doing so. The Guarantors further acknowledge that all of the provisions
of this Guarantee and the restrictions herein contained are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
24. Save as otherwise provided herein this Guarantee may not be cancelled or varied in any way without the prior written consent of the Seller.
25. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein the Seller shall be entitled from time to time and at any time to enforce the rights granted to the Seller in terms of this Guarantee against any one or more of the Guarantors in respect of
any of the obligations of the Purchaser. Should the Seller enforce its rights in terms of this Guarantee at any time against any of the Guarantors such action shall not preclude the Seller from doing likewise again against the other/s Guarantor/s in
respect of the same cause of action or a different cause of action, provided that the aforegoing shall not entitle the Seller to be paid the same amount due to it by the Purchaser from the Guarantors.
26. Each of the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally liable for the fulfillment by the other Guarantors of the obligations of the Guarantors in terms of this Guarantee.